---
title: 'The Government Equalities Office Twitter Takeover - PrideON'
excerpt: Submit a video on 'What allyship means to you' for a chance to feature on the GEO's twitter account. 
event-date: 2020-06-19 17:00:00
location: "Digital"
register: hannah.toulson@geo.gov.uk
category: pride-2020
layout: event
slug: /2020/06/29/geo-twitter-take-over-pride-on
published: true
---

## From the Goverment Equalities Office: 

Due to current circumstances this year's Pride events have taken to the online world for 2020. The theme is #YouMeUsWe - a call to show how important allyship is to the LGBT+ community. 

We would really like for the Civil Service LGBT+ network to take over the Government Equalities twitter account for the day. To do this we will be posting videos from yourselves on our Twitter account throughout the day. 

We’re asking you to film yourselves (or ask someone else to film you) answering the questions: “What does allyship mean to you and why is it so important to the LGBT+ community”. 

The videos can be filmed on your smartphone, some good tips are:

- Film them in landscape
- Keep them to around about 30 - 60 seconds
- Try to find a nice background to include behind you if possible
- If you’re using sunlight please make sure that the sun is facing you rather than behind you to avoid a silhouette. 


Please send them to Hannah Toulson by Friday 19 June either by email to [hannah.toulson@geo.gov.uk](hannah.toulson@geo.gov.uk) or if the file size is too big we suggest using WeTransfer.

## Questions

If you have any issues or questions about the event, please [email us](mailto:info@civilservice.lgbt)

> Do you have a digital event coming up during PrideON? [Contact us](/about/contact-us/) and we can help you promote it.
