---
title: "International Women’s Day: Choose to Challenge Panel from DfT LGBT+"
excerpt: "Join DfT LGBT+ Network IWD Panel"
event-date: 2021-03-08 13:00:00
location: "Online (MS Teams)"
email: lgbtnetwork@trade.gov.uk
layout: event
slug: /2021/03/08/iwd-trade-panel
published: true
---

## International Women’s Day: Choose to Challenge Panel, from the LGBTQ+ Network

A challenged world is an alert world. Individually, we're all responsible for our own thoughts and actions - all day, every day. We can all choose to challenge and call out gender bias and inequality. We can all choose to seek out and celebrate women's achievements. Collectively, we can all help create an inclusive world.

The LGBTQ+ Network are proud to present a panel to celebrate International Women’s Day. 

We are excited to be hosting three panellists from the LGBTQ+ community to share their experiences of choosing to challenge. 

We will be joined by Becks Buckingham from the FCDO, Helena Territt, formerly of DIT, and Roz Campion from the Home Office. Claire Vince, one of DIT’s LGBTQ+ SCS Champions, will be talking to all three about their exciting career journeys across the Civil Service, their experiences of gender equality in the UK and overseas, and what it means to be a woman in the LGBTQ+ community. 

Everybody is welcome.

#### This session is for Civil Servants only.

A friendly reminder to please only register for this event using your work email. In most instances this should end in GOV.UK. We are aware that some areas of the Civil Service do not use GOV.UK emails, if this is the case, please let us know when registering. 

If you use a personal email and we can not verify you are a civil servant, you will not be sent joining instructions to the event. If your work device does not support the systems we are using, we suggest forwarding the details to your personal device or using the dial in options.


> Is your department or network hosting a digital event? Let us know and we can share it on our website.   
