---
title: COMMEMORATE HOLOCAUST MEMORIAL DAY 2021 
excerpt: UNIQUE OPPORTUNITY TO HEAR A SURVIVOR’S TESTIMONY ON TUESDAY 26 JANUARY. 
event-date: 2021-01-26 12:00:00
location: "Online"
link: "https://www.eventbrite.co.uk/e/holocaust-memorial-day-2021-tickets-137398286975?utm-campaign%3Dsocial%252Cemail%26utm-content%3Dattendeeshare%26utm-medium%3Ddiscovery%26utm-source%3Dstrongmail%26utm-term%3Dcheckoutwidget&source=gmail&ust=1611140094682000&usg=AFQjCNHTSpqoM-JPZB6ww5vmJ2wzifw_GA"
layout: event
slug: /2021/01/26/hmd-cross-gov
published: true
---

Holocaust Memorial Day (HMD) on 27 January will mark the 76th anniversary of the liberation of the Auschwitz-Birkenau death camp. This day remembers the millions of people killed in the Holocaust, Nazi Persecution and in subsequent genocides in Cambodia, Rwanda, Bosnia, and Darfur. 

For the first time, colleagues can join a truly cross-Government event to hear directly from a Holocaust survivor, Steven Frank BEM, from 12-1pm on Tuesday 26 January. The event will also be addressed by Michael Gove, the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster, and the Cabinet Secretary. 

Steven Frank was born in 1935 into a secular Jewish family in Amsterdam. Having decided not to flee to Britain at the outbreak of war, Steven’s father was sent to Auschwitz-Birkenau where he was gassed in January 1943. With the rest of his family, he was then interned in Barneveld, then Westerbork transit camp, before being liberated in Theresienstadt in May 1945. He now lives in Hertfordshire, and regularly speaks in schools about his experiences during the Holocaust.

Hearing a survivor’s testimony is a truly unique experience and the lessons from these genocides continue to have relevance to our work in Government. You can sign up for this event by signing up at Eventbrite. Attendees should aim to arrive for 11.55am to enable a prompt start. There will be a maximum capacity limit, but it will also be recorded and made available to civil servants after the event.

> Is your department or network hosting a digital event? Let us know and we can share it on our website.  
