---
title: "Body, Mind, Spirit: A discussion with Matthew Todd on LGBT+ mental health"
excerpt: "KPMG's Breathe Network and the Department for Transport's LGBT+ network are proud to host this event spotlighting LGBT+ Mental Health"
event-date: 2021-02-11 12:00:00
location: "Online (MS Teams)"
link: "https://www.eventbrite.co.uk/e/mind-body-and-spirit-a-discussion-with-matthew-todd-on-lgbt-mental-health-tickets-138920648399"
layout: event
slug: /2021/02/11/a_discussion_with_matthew_todd
published: true
---

KPMG's Breathe Network and the Department for Transport's LGBT+ network are proud to host this event spotlighting LGBT+ Mental Health

### About this Event

We’re sure it’s not news to many of us that research suggests people identifying as LGBT+ are at higher risk of experiencing poor mental health and mental health conditions. This can be attributed to a range of factors including, but not limited to, discrimination and isolation.

This year’s theme for LGBT+ History Month is ‘Body, Mind, Spirit,’ and in the ‘spirit’ of that we will be hosting an interactive discussion with multi-award-winning writer and broadcaster, Matthew Todd, to explore how each of these aspects can impact (both positively and negatively) upon the mental health of LGBTQ+ people.

Matthew Todd is a multi-award-winning writer and one of the UK’s leading gay voices. He was Editor of Attitude magazine for 8 years where he convinced Prince William to sit for the cover and become the first member of the Royal family to speak out against homo, bi and transphobic bullying. His first book, ‘Straight Jacket: Overcoming societies legacy of gay shame’, the first British book on LGBT mental health, has been described as ‘lifesaving’ and ‘game changing’ by readers and as ‘an essential read for every gay person on the planet’ by Sir Elton John.

He writes and appears regularly in the media, has presented two films for Newsnight and is the recipient of 3 BSME Editor of the Year Awards, Stonewall Journalist of the Year and Boyz LGBT Book of the Year Awards.

His play ‘Blowing Whistles’ has been performed in the UK, US and Australia, and his second book, ‘Pride: The Story of the LGBTQ Equality Movement’, is published in the UK, Italy, France, Spain and America.

By attending the event, we hope we can:

• Give insights into the way that we see ourselves through different lenses and how this, as well as external factors, can impact our Mental Health.

• Understand the importance of prioritising mental health support for LGBT+ people – and of LGBTQ+ specific mental health care, advice, and support;

• Explore ways that as LGBTQ+ people we can support each other to promote wellbeing within our communities – and what allies can do to help out.

The event will be kicked off by Mel Knight, Partner within our IGH Advisory Function. It will be closed by the Department for transport.

For questions or more information please reach out to Mariana.Ceccotti@kpmg.co.uk or Rob.Bullock@dft.gov.uk

### Civil Service LGBT+ Network’s Statement of Impartiality

We would like to make Civil Servants aware who choose to attend our LGBT+ History month events, that the speakers are external. Therefore, please be mindful that these will include discussions of the speaker’s own experiences, ideas and opinions.

We also want to make it clear that the views discussed in these events are those of the guest speakers. Therefore, they are not the views of the Civil Service nor the Government. Likewise, these are not the views of the Civil Service LGBT+ Network.

> Is your department or network hosting a digital event? Let us know and we can share it on our website.   
