---
title: 'BiSpace Quiz Night'
excerpt: Join BiSpace for a virtual quiz night and social.
event-date: 2021-02-24 17:30:00
location: "Online (via Zoom)"
link: "https://www.eventbrite.co.uk/e/bispace-quiz-night-tickets-138923539045"
layout: event
category: bispace
slug: /2021/02/24/bi-quiz
published: true
---

**Join BiSpace for a fun virtual quiz night with a bi+ twist, followed by an informal social for those interested.**


### What is BiSpace? ###

BiSpace is a social initiative run by bi+ civil servants, for bi+ civil servants. This is facilitated by the Bi+ Inclusion Team under the Civil Service LGBT+ Network.

The term 'bi+' encompasses bisexual, asexual, pansexual, queer and other similar identities.


### How do I join? ###

To join the quiz night, please register your attendance on Eventbrite using your work email. You will be contacted with the Zoom joining details no later than 24 hours before the event.

If you're signing up as a team, please email your team name and names of players to [Alan.Edwards@dhsc.gov.uk](mailto:Alan.Edwards@dhsc.gov.uk).

If you're joining individually, we'll place you into a team on the day.


**Please note:**

**Joining details will not be sent to personal email addresses.** If you wish to join from a personal account, please forward the joining details to your own address from your work inbox once they are sent out.

**Registration closes 24 hours before the event** so that we can get joining details to everyone in time. Please do not leave registration to the last minute.


### Questions? ###

If you have any issues or questions, please email [Alan.Edwards@dhsc.gov.uk](mailto:alan.edwards@dhsc.gov.uk) or [Astrid.Crowley1@homeoffice.gov.uk](mailto:Astrid.Crowley1@homeoffice.gov.uk).
