---
title: "Love in trenches, hospitals and the archives"
excerpt: "LGBT+ History Month: Join us as we discuss early 20th century LGBTQ history, chaired by Jonah Coman."
event-date: 2021-02-18 16:00:00
location: "Online (MS Teams)"
link: "https://www.eventbrite.co.uk/e/love-in-trenches-hospitals-and-the-archives-tickets-138155736527"
layout: event
slug: /2021/02/18/Love_in_trenches_hospitals_and_the_archives 
published: true
---

Join us as we discuss early 20th century LGBTQ history, chaired by Jonah Coman

Speakers will discuss queerness in the trenches during the world wars, the effects of Nazi regime on queer history and heritage, the Berlin sexuality institute and birth certificates for trans people before the landmark case of Corbett v Corbett.in the Empire’s colonies, as well as the beginnings of medicalisation of queerness.

Joining instructions will be sent via a scheduler no later than 2 hours before the event. Please ensure you manually block out the time in your calendar in advance. 

#### This session is for Civil Servants only.

A friendly reminder to please only register for this event using your work email. In most instances this should end in GOV.UK. We are aware that some areas of the Civil Service do not use GOV.UK emails, if this is the case, please continue to register through Eventbrite using your work email and drop us an email at info@civilserivce.lgbt to let us know. 

If you use a personal email and we can not verify you are a civil servant, you will not be sent joining instructions to the event. If your work device does not support the systems we are using, we suggest forwarding the details to your personal device or using the dial in options.

### Civil Service LGBT+ Network’s Statement of Impartiality

We would like to make Civil Servants aware who choose to attend our LGBT+ History month events, that the speakers are external. Therefore, please be mindful that these will include discussions of the speaker’s own experiences, ideas and opinions.

We also want to make it clear that the views discussed in these events are those of the guest speakers. Therefore, they are not the views of the Civil Service nor the Government. Likewise, these are not the views of the Civil Service LGBT+ Network.

> Is your department or network hosting a digital event? Let us know and we can share it on our website.   
