---
title: "Transgender Day of Visibility: a panel event by a:gender"
excerpt: "To mark Transgender Day of Visibility, a:gender – the cross government network that supports trans, nonbinary and intersex staff – are proud to announce this Panel Discussion of trans voices. "
event-date: 2021-03-30 13:00:00
location: "Online"
email: Agender@homeoffice.gov.uk
layout: event
slug: /2021/03/30/tdov-agender-panel
published: true
---

To mark Transgender Day of Visibility, a:gender – the cross government network that supports trans, nonbinary and intersex staff – are proud to announce this Panel Discussion of trans voices. Hosted by Max Tait (he/him), panellists will discuss their experiences of being trans in the workplace and the importance of allies in helping trans visibility.

Transgender Day of Visibility is held every year on the 31st of March and is dedicated to celebrating transgender people and raising awareness of their contributions to society worldwide. The day was founded by US-based trans activist Rachel Crandall in 2009 as a reaction to the lack of recognition of trans people. She, like many others, were frustrated that the only well-known trans-centered day was Transgender Day of Remembrance, which mourned the murders of trans people, but did not acknowledge and celebrate living members of the community. 

We need to make sure trans voices are uplifted, listened to and celebrated.

#### This session is for Civil Servants only.

A friendly reminder to please only register for this event using your work email. In most instances this should end in GOV.UK. We are aware that some areas of the Civil Service do not use GOV.UK emails, if this is the case, please let us know when registering. 

If you use a personal email and we can not verify you are a civil servant, you will not be sent joining instructions to the event. If your work device does not support the systems we are using, we suggest forwarding the details to your personal device or using the dial in options.

> Is your department or network hosting a digital event? Let us know and we can share it on our website.   
