---
title: "LGBT+ History Month: A discussion with Ben Hunte"
excerpt: "DfT LGBT+ Netowrk: Join us as we welcome Ben Hunte, the BBC's first LGBT Correspondent, as he discusses his life and career"
event-date: 2021-02-25 10:30:00
location: "Online (MS Teams)"
link: "https://www.eventbrite.co.uk/e/lgbt-history-month-a-discussion-with-ben-hunte-tickets-139406108423"
layout: event
slug: /2021/02/25/a_discussion_with_ben_hunte
published: true
---

The Department for Transport's LGBT+ and Allies Network has teamed up with the Black Staff and Allies Network to celebrate LGBT+ History Month with an exclusive talk from the BBC's LGBT Correspondent, Ben Hunte.

In 2019, Ben made made history becoming the first correspondent in the BBC's 98 year history to report exclusively on stories relating to sexuality and gender. Last year, he was voted number one in The Guardian and DIVA Magazine's Pride Power List.

Join us for this unique opportunity to hear from Ben as shares his own experiences and the stories behind his remarkable news reports that have shed new light on the LGBT community in the UK and abroad, such as Poland’s ‘LGBT-free zones’ and uncovering the ongoing practice of ‘gay conversion therapy’ in the UK.

### How do I join in?

This LGBT+ History Month event with Ben Hunte will be held on Thursday 25 February 2021 from 10:30 – 11:30.

It is an internal event hosted by the Department for Transport (DfT). All government colleagues with a GOV.UK work email address may book a ticket to attend this event.

The event will take place virtually and will be hosted on Microsoft Teams. Dial-in details will be provided for anyone who would like to join via telephone.

### Civil Service LGBT+ Network’s Statement of Impartiality

We would like to make Civil Servants aware who choose to attend our LGBT+ History month events, that the speakers are external. Therefore, please be mindful that these will include discussions of the speaker’s own experiences, ideas and opinions.

We also want to make it clear that the views discussed in these events are those of the guest speakers. Therefore, they are not the views of the Civil Service nor the Government. Likewise, these are not the views of the Civil Service LGBT+ Network.

> Is your department or network hosting a digital event? Let us know and we can share it on our website.   
