---
layout: votes
title: "Election 2023: Election results"
excerpt: "See the results of the 2023 Chair's election."
caption: "Election 2023"
author: Civil Service LGBT+ Network
category:
  - election-2023

permalink: /election/2023/votes

# published: false
---

This page outlines the results for the 2023 Chair's election.

## Votes received

56 Civil Service organisations were eligible to vote in this election, having met the criteria for eligibility prior to the close of the voting period. 

24 LGBT+ networks submitted a valid vote before the deadline. Across the 24 networks, 853 people voted in their internal elections. 

1 network submitted their vote after the deadline, and was not counted. If the vote were included, it would not have affected the overall outcome of the election.

Of the 24 networks that submitted a valid vote before the deadline:

- 17 networks conducted a vote of their full membership, and 7 networks conducted a vote of their committee
- 23 networks conducted their vote using a simple pluraity method ('first past the post') and 1 network used a transferrable vote method

## Summary of the results

Civil Service LGBT+ Network elections are conducted using an 'electoral college' system, with each organisation's vote carrying equal weight; in essence, 'one network, one vote'. 

As networks were required to submit the full results from their department, it is possible to provide a summary of the results for both the 'popular' vote (i.e. votes by individuals) and the 'electoral college' vote (i.e. votes by departments).

### Votes by individuals

Excluding the 1 network that used a transferrable vote system, the percentage of individual votes received for each candidate is as follows:

| Candidate                                         | % of votes        | Rank |
|---------------------------------------------------|------------------:|-----:|
| Saorsa-Amatheia Tweedale and Jefferson Welsby     | 30 %              | 1    |
| Nic Turner                                        | 27 %              | 2    |
| Ross Starkie                                      | 23 %              | 3    |
| Eamon Evans                                       | 14 %              | 4    |
| Re-open nominations                               | 1 %               | 5    |

### Votes by departments

Across all departments that voted, the breakdown of votes received for each candidate is as follows:

| Candidate                                         | Count | % of votes        | Rank |
|---------------------------------------------------|------:|------------------:|-----:|
| Saorsa-Amatheia Tweedale and Jefferson Welsby     | 15    | 56 %              | 1    |
| Nic Turner                                        | 7     | 26 %              | 2    |
| Ross Starkie                                      | 3     | 11 %              | 3    |
| Eamon Evans                                       | 2     | 7 %               | 4    |
| Re-open nominations                               | 0     | 0 %               | 5    |

### Analysis of the outcome of the vote

Earlier this year, the Civil Service LGBT+ Network considered moving away from the electoral college system and towards an invididual member voting method to elect a new chair. Consideration was also given as to whether the count of departmental votes should be conducted under a transferrable vote method, instead of a simple plurality method.

Whilst the decision was taken to keep the electoral college system and to operate the final count under a first past the post counting methodology, in this election the outcome would have been identical. Saorsa and Jefferson would have been elected under both scenarios.
