---
title: 'BiSpace Coffee Club'
excerpt: Join BiSpace for the first virtual lunchtime coffee club.
event-date: 2020-04-17 12:30:00
location: "Online (via Zoom)"
link: "https://www.eventbrite.co.uk/e/bispace-coffee-club-tickets-102698092760"
layout: event
slug: /2020/04/17/bi-coffee
published: true
---


Tired of talking to your cat? Have you completed every yoga video on Youtube? Need a reason to not give yourself yet another bad haircut?

Then join BiSpace for our first virtual coffee meetup! Dial in over your lunch, tea or coffee and drop in for a quick bit of human interaction with faces old and new. This will be very informal, so feel free to dial in at any stage and stick around however little or long you like.

As we all adjust to life in lockdown, we're thinking of new ways to stay in touch. We're experimenting with this first informal coffee session, so please let us know how you find it and if we should make them more regular.



**What is BiSpace?**

BiSpace is a social initiative run by bi+ civil servants, for bi+ civil servants. This is facilitated by the Bi+ Inclusion Team under the Civil Service LGBT+ Network.

The term 'bi+' encompasses bisexual, asexual, pansexual, queer and other similar identities.



**How do I join?**

Please register your interest on [Eventbrite](https://www.eventbrite.co.uk/e/bispace-coffee-club-tickets-102698092760) using your work email. You will be contacted with the Zoom joining details.



**Can't make this one but still interested?**

No worries! We're hoping to organise more of these in the future if deemed useful, so pop your details down anyway, and you'll receive invites for future coffee clubs if we do them.



**Questions?**

If you have any issues or questions, please email [Alan.Edwards@sfo.gov.uk](mailto:alan.edwards@sfo.gov.uk) or [Astrid.Crowley1@homeoffice.gov.uk](mailto:Astrid.Crowley1@homeoffice.gov.uk).
